README.md, before:

# babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig

![babel plugin module resolver tsconfig automatic alias banner](./imgs/banner_black.png)

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.org/package/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig" alt="npm version">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig.svg?style=flat-square"/>
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig/actions?query=workflow%3ACI+branch%3Amaster">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig/CI/master" alt="Build Status">
  </a>
  <a href='https://coveralls.io/github/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig?branch=master'>
    <img src='https://coveralls.io/repos/github/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig/badge.svg?branch=master' alt='Coverage Status' />
  </a>
  <a href='LICENSE'>
    <img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat' alt='Coverage Status' />
  </a>
</div>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig">npm page</a>, 
  <a href="https://github.com/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig">repo page</a>,
  <a href="https://github.com/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig" style="color: yellow; text-decoration: inherit;">Star me ⭐💫</a>

  
</div>

<hr>

You should **"Write the aliases in tsconfig only. It should be that simple."**.

A helper module that provides easy configuration of [babel-plugin-module-resolver](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-plugin-module-resolver) plugin for typescript projects. **To avoid repeating writing the aliases in both tsconfig and .babelrc.js.** (What a blessing)

And that by reading automatically the config from the `tsconfig.json` and setting the `babel` module resolver plugin` with that. After converting and mapping them to the babel resolver format.

Support extending the config as well.

Say goodbye to repetition and also the frustration of it's not working. Why => forget to add it to the other config. **No more of that**.

See how simple it becomes.

## First basic example

```ts
const { setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig } = require('babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig')

module.export = {
  "presets": [
    "@babel/preset-env",
    "@babel/preset-typescript"
  ],
  "plugins": [
    "@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties",
    setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig()
  ]
}
```

it's that simple. Instead of manually adding and repeating all of the aliases. No more of `it shouldn't be like this` and `frustration`.

`tsconfig.json` looked up automatically in the same directory as `babel.config.json`.

### Signature

```ts
export declare interface IPluginConfig {
  [configProp: string]: any;
  root?: string | string[] | ((tsConfigBaseUrl: string) => string | string[]);
  alias?: Record<string, string>;
  tsconfigPath?: string;
}

declare function setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig(
  config?: IPluginConfig
): [PluginTarget, IPluginConfig];

declare function readAndParseTsConfig(tsconfigPath: string): ParsedTsconfig;
```

If you like to know the details. Go to the end of the document.

Here bellow more examples first. For a quick start.

> Note: check the toubleshooting section. Tips that can avoid you trouble.

Main rule: in **tsconfig paths** use `./` for relative paths. (`"./src/*"` instead of `"src/*"`). Go to the Tips section at the end to see more details.

## Examples

Most of the time you should go with the no config option already shared above.

### tsconfig.json path

Relative path to the calling `babel.config.json`

Check the API details for how the relative resolution happens.

```js
setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
  tsconfigPath: './tsconfig.json'
})
```

Absolute path

```js
setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
  tsconfigPath: path.resolve(__dirname, './tsconfig.json')
})
```

### root

The root value is very important. By default, it is deduced from `tsConfig.compilerOptions.baseUrl`.

One value

```js
setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
  tsconfigPath: './tsconfig.json',
  root: '.'
});
```

Multiple values

```js
setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
  root: ['.', './another']
});
```

Dynamic function

```js
setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
  root: (tsconfigBaseUrl) => {
    if (someCheck(tsconfigBaseUrl)) {
      return '.' // return a string
    }
    return ['.', './another'] // or array
  }
});
```

> When you provide a root value. It would not override the typescript one. But rather be merged and take precedence (come first) `root: './some' => babel result => root: ['./some', './tsConfgBaseUrlValue']`. 

### Extra aliases 

(Aliases are merged and added. Not replaced!)

```ts
const { setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig } = require('babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig')

module.export = {
  "presets": [
    "@babel/preset-env",
    "@babel/preset-typescript"
  ],
  "plugins": [
    "@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties",
    setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
      alias: {
        '@extra/*': 'src/extra/*',
        // ...
      }
    })
  ]
}
```

The above will resolve to:

```js
[
  require.resolve('babel-plugin-module-resolver'),
  {
    root: [tsconfig.compilerOptions.baseUrl],
    alias: {
      ...<resolved converted mapped typescript paths>,
      '@extra/*': 'src/extra/\\1',
      // ...
    },
  }
]
```

## Api details

### tsconfigPath option 

You can provide the tsconfigPath manually. Relative or absolute.

The Relative works relatively to the calling module file. Here it should be `babel.config.js`.

If you are building a module (or package) and wrapping this package to extend it. Then you should use absolute path instead. As the calling module in such a case become your new module. `module.parent.filename` was used internally to give you an idea.

If not provided. `tsconfig.json` would be looked up automatically. By trying to get the babel config file path from CLI if provided. Otherwise the calling module (babel config file).

If no config file is provided in the babel CLI command. The module calling the method directory would be taken.


### root

The root is a `string`, `array`, or `((tsConfigBaseUrl: string) => string | string[])`

Whatever the option. It will resolve to a string array. That what `babel-resolver` expect.

If the root option is not provided. The module automatically gets it from `tsconfig.compilerOptions.baseUrl`.

If provided. It will still get the `tsconfig baseUrl`. However, it will take precedence. The final resolution will go as follow: `[...<userRoot>, <tsconfigBaseUrl>]`.


### Alias

It will resolve to

```js
{
  ...tsconfigConvertedPaths,
  ...userAlias
}
```

## Trouble shooting and tips

Hugely very important. If it's not working. Check your tsconfig paths first.

First tip. Use relative paths with `./`.

**this work** ✅:

```ts
"paths": {
  "*": ["./src/*"]
}
```

this doesn't ❌:

```ts
"paths": {
  "*": ["src/*"]
}
```

Ok why doesn't the module handle that for us !! ??? => Well actually because you may refer to a no path name. Like a package. So you have to be precise. And the small rule above is simple and natural.

## REPO SUPPORT ⭐🌟✨💫 🌠

<hr/>
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig">repo page</a>
</div>
<hr/>

Any issue. Go to repo.

**WAIT** ... ⭐🌟✨💫 🌠 **YOU HAVEN'T STARED THE REPO YET** ⭐🌟✨💫 🌠
**TIME TO DO** => At least open the repo. And when you test the module and be ❤️ 💖 **What a blessing** 💖 ❤️ => That's the **calling to star** moment. And remember to always smile.

Know that staring a project is a way to show love, appreciation or a little thank you. Not that those are necessary in life. But life is better with and more vibe-ing and beautiful.

It always means something for any author. Plus it does support the package. The first thing people check before they start using a package is the number of stars.

Star only if you see it's worth staring. I personally always love being reminded. I may easily forget or have that out of my mind. Hence this call to action message (there is an experiment as well. Life is fascinating.).

Feel free. (Repo => [calling](https://github.com/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig))

Issues, Questions, Contribution, Feedback. => Repo.

Commit message:

docs: update readme - no begging - The Magician mention

README.md, after:

# babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig

![babel plugin module resolver tsconfig automatic alias banner](./imgs/banner_black.png)

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.org/package/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig" alt="npm version">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig.svg?style=flat-square"/>
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig/actions?query=workflow%3ACI+branch%3Amaster">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig/CI/master" alt="Build Status">
  </a>
  <a href='https://coveralls.io/github/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig?branch=master'>
    <img src='https://coveralls.io/repos/github/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig/badge.svg?branch=master' alt='Coverage Status' />
  </a>
  <a href='LICENSE'>
    <img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat' alt='Coverage Status' />
  </a>
</div>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig">npm page</a>, 
  <a href="https://github.com/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig">repo page</a>,
  <a href="https://github.com/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig" style="color: yellow; text-decoration: inherit;">Star me ⭐💫</a>

  
</div>

<hr>

You should **"Write the aliases in tsconfig only. It should be that simple."**.

A helper module that provides easy configuration of [babel-plugin-module-resolver](https://www.npmjs.com/package/babel-plugin-module-resolver) plugin for typescript projects. **To avoid repeating writing the aliases in both tsconfig and .babelrc.js.** (What a blessing)

And that by reading automatically the config from the `tsconfig.json` and setting the `babel` module resolver plugin` with that. After converting and mapping them to the babel resolver format.

Support extending the config as well.

Say goodbye to repetition and also the frustration of it's not working. Why => forget to add it to the other config. **No more of that**.

See how simple it becomes.

## First basic example

```ts
const { setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig } = require('babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig')

module.export = {
  "presets": [
    "@babel/preset-env",
    "@babel/preset-typescript"
  ],
  "plugins": [
    "@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties",
    setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig()
  ]
}
```

it's that simple. Instead of manually adding and repeating all of the aliases. No more of `it shouldn't be like this` and `frustration`.

`tsconfig.json` looked up automatically in the same directory as `babel.config.json`.

### Signature

```ts
export declare interface IPluginConfig {
  [configProp: string]: any;
  root?: string | string[] | ((tsConfigBaseUrl: string) => string | string[]);
  alias?: Record<string, string>;
  tsconfigPath?: string;
}

declare function setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig(
  config?: IPluginConfig
): [PluginTarget, IPluginConfig];

declare function readAndParseTsConfig(tsconfigPath: string): ParsedTsconfig;
```

If you like to know the details. Go to the end of the document.

Here bellow more examples first. For a quick start.

> Note: check the toubleshooting section. Tips that can avoid you trouble.

Main rule: in **tsconfig paths** use `./` for relative paths. (`"./src/*"` instead of `"src/*"`). Go to the Tips section at the end to see more details.

## Examples

Most of the time you should go with the no config option already shared above.

### tsconfig.json path

Relative path to the calling `babel.config.json`

Check the API details for how the relative resolution happens.

```js
setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
  tsconfigPath: './tsconfig.json'
})
```

Absolute path

```js
setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
  tsconfigPath: path.resolve(__dirname, './tsconfig.json')
})
```

### root

The root value is very important. By default, it is deduced from `tsConfig.compilerOptions.baseUrl`.

One value

```js
setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
  tsconfigPath: './tsconfig.json',
  root: '.'
});
```

Multiple values

```js
setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
  root: ['.', './another']
});
```

Dynamic function

```js
setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
  root: (tsconfigBaseUrl) => {
    if (someCheck(tsconfigBaseUrl)) {
      return '.' // return a string
    }
    return ['.', './another'] // or array
  }
});
```

> When you provide a root value. It would not override the typescript one. But rather be merged and take precedence (come first) `root: './some' => babel result => root: ['./some', './tsConfgBaseUrlValue']`. 

### Extra aliases 

(Aliases are merged and added. Not replaced!)

```ts
const { setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig } = require('babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig')

module.export = {
  "presets": [
    "@babel/preset-env",
    "@babel/preset-typescript"
  ],
  "plugins": [
    "@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties",
    setModuleResolverPluginForTsConfig({
      alias: {
        '@extra/*': 'src/extra/*',
        // ...
      }
    })
  ]
}
```

The above will resolve to:

```js
[
  require.resolve('babel-plugin-module-resolver'),
  {
    root: [tsconfig.compilerOptions.baseUrl],
    alias: {
      ...<resolved converted mapped typescript paths>,
      '@extra/*': 'src/extra/\\1',
      // ...
    },
  }
]
```

## Api details

### tsconfigPath option 

You can provide the tsconfigPath manually. Relative or absolute.

The Relative works relatively to the calling module file. Here it should be `babel.config.js`.

If you are building a module (or package) and wrapping this package to extend it. Then you should use absolute path instead. As the calling module in such a case become your new module. `module.parent.filename` was used internally to give you an idea.

If not provided. `tsconfig.json` would be looked up automatically. By trying to get the babel config file path from CLI if provided. Otherwise the calling module (babel config file).

If no config file is provided in the babel CLI command. The module calling the method directory would be taken.


### root

The root is a `string`, `array`, or `((tsConfigBaseUrl: string) => string | string[])`

Whatever the option. It will resolve to a string array. That what `babel-resolver` expect.

If the root option is not provided. The module automatically gets it from `tsconfig.compilerOptions.baseUrl`.

If provided. It will still get the `tsconfig baseUrl`. However, it will take precedence. The final resolution will go as follow: `[...<userRoot>, <tsconfigBaseUrl>]`.


### Alias

It will resolve to

```js
{
  ...tsconfigConvertedPaths,
  ...userAlias
}
```

## Trouble shooting and tips

Hugely very important. If it's not working. Check your tsconfig paths first.

First tip. Use relative paths with `./`.

**this work** ✅:

```ts
"paths": {
  "*": ["./src/*"]
}
```

this doesn't ❌:

```ts
"paths": {
  "*": ["src/*"]
}
```

Ok why doesn't the module handle that for us !! ??? => Well actually because you may refer to a no path name. Like a package. So you have to be precise. And the small rule above is simple and natural.

## REPO SUPPORT ⭐🌟✨💫 🌠

<hr/>
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig">repo page</a>
</div>
<hr/>

Any issue. Go to repo.

**WAIT** ... ⭐🌟✨💫 🌠 **YOU HAVEN'T STARED THE REPO YET** ⭐🌟✨💫 🌠
**TIME TO DO** => At least open the repo. And when you test the module and be ❤️ 💖 **What a blessing** 💖 ❤️ => That's the **calling to star** moment. And remember to always smile.

Like it => Star => Let know - community picked it. => trust (barrier to use)

Feel free. (Repo => [calling](https://github.com/TheMagicianDev/babel-plugin-module-resolver-tsconfig))

Issues, Questions, Contribution, Feedback. => Repo.

## The Magician project

This plugin was created as a need first and also part of the teaching at the magician project. The Magician Dev. (The Magician project is about magic for life [in everything], The Magician Dev is about development)

[content will be shared later]
